README.md, before:

# Flask MySQL CI Pipeline

![CI Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-brightgreen) ![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/flask-2.0-black) ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/mysql-8.0-blue) ![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/container-docker-blue)

A robust, containerized two-tier application integrating a **Flask** backend with a **MySQL** database. This project demonstrates modern DevOps practices with a fully automated **GitHub Actions** Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline.

---

## 📖 Project Overview

This repository showcases a microservices architecture where the application logic (Flask) and data persistence (MySQL) are decoupled and containerized. The primary focus is on **automation** and **reliability**: ensuring that every code change is automatically built, tested, and verified before deployment.

### Key Features
* **Two-Tier Architecture:** Seamless integration between Flask (Application Layer) and MySQL (Data Layer).
* **Containerization:** Fully isolated environments using Docker.
* **Automated CI Pipeline:** Triggers builds on every push to `main` via GitHub Actions to ensure code integrity.
* **Scalability:** Designed to be easily orchestrated with tools like Kubernetes.

---

## ⚙️ CI/CD Pipeline Workflow

The core of this project is the **GitHub Actions** workflow, which automates the build process.

**Workflow Stages:**
1.  **Source Checkout:** Retrieves the latest commit.
2.  **Environment Setup:** Initializes the build environment.
3.  **Docker Build:** Compiles the Docker images for Flask and MySQL.
4.  **Verification:** Validates the build status.

### Pipeline Visualization
Below is a capture of the GitHub Actions workflow execution, validating the successful integration of the latest build.

![GitHub Workflow CI Pipeline](images/GitHub_Workflow_CI_Pipeline.png)
*(Fig. 1: Successful execution of the CI pipeline in the GitHub Actions tab)*

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

| Component | Technology | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Backend** | ![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Flask-000000?logo=flask&logoColor=white) | Python-based lightweight web framework. |
| **Database** | ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MySQL-4479A1?logo=mysql&logoColor=white) | Relational database management system. |
| **Containerization** | ![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=white) | Used to package the application and database. |
| **CI/CD** | ![GitHub Actions](https://img.shields.io/badge/-GitHub_Actions-2088FF?logo=github-actions&logoColor=white) | Automates the build and test workflows. |

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these instructions to set up the project locally.

### Prerequisites
* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed on your machine.
* Git installed.

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Atharva-Ramawat/Flask-mysql-CI-pipeline
    cd Flask-mysql-CI-pipeline
    ```

2.  **Build the Docker Images**
    ```bash
    docker-compose build
    ```
    *(Or `docker build ...` if you are not using compose)*

3.  **Run the Application**
    ```bash
    docker-compose up -d
    ```

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Atharva Ramawat**
* [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/Atharva-Ramawat)

---

*This project is for educational purposes to demonstrate CI/CD, Flask, and Docker workflows.*

Commit message:

Enhance README with AWS EC2 and CI details
Updated README to include AWS EC2 details and clarify CI pipeline execution environment.

README.md, after:

# Flask MySQL CI Pipeline

![CI Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-brightgreen) ![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/flask-2.0-black) ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/mysql-8.0-blue) ![AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-EC2-232F3E?logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white)

A robust, containerized two-tier application integrating a **Flask** backend with a **MySQL** database. This project demonstrates modern DevOps practices with a fully automated **GitHub Actions** Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline executed on **Self-Hosted AWS EC2 Runners**.

---

## 📖 Project Overview

This repository showcases a microservices architecture where the application logic (Flask) and data persistence (MySQL) are decoupled and containerized. The primary focus is on **automation**, **reliability**, and **infrastructure control**.

### Key Features
* **Two-Tier Architecture:** Seamless integration between Flask (Application Layer) and MySQL (Data Layer).
* **Self-Hosted Infrastructure:** Utilizes custom **AWS EC2 instances** as GitHub Actions runners, providing full control over the build environment and dependencies.
* **Containerization:** Fully isolated environments using Docker.
* **Automated CI Pipeline:** Triggers builds on every push to `main` via GitHub Actions to ensure code integrity.

---

## ⚙️ CI/CD Pipeline Workflow

The core of this project is the **GitHub Actions** workflow, which automates the build process on our cloud infrastructure.

**Workflow Stages:**
1.  **Source Checkout:** Retrieves the latest commit on the **AWS EC2 runner**.
2.  **Environment Setup:** Initializes the build environment.
3.  **Docker Build:** Compiles the Docker images for Flask and MySQL.
4.  **Verification:** Validates the build status inside the self-hosted environment.

### Pipeline Visualization
Below is a capture of the GitHub Actions workflow execution, validating the successful integration of the latest build.

![GitHub Workflow CI Pipeline](images/GitHub_Workflow_CI_Pipeline.png)
*(Fig. 1: Successful execution of the CI pipeline in the GitHub Actions tab)*

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

| Component | Technology | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Backend** | ![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Flask-000000?logo=flask&logoColor=white) | Python-based lightweight web framework. |
| **Database** | ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MySQL-4479A1?logo=mysql&logoColor=white) | Relational database management system. |
| **Infrastructure** | ![AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/-AWS_EC2-232F3E?logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white) | Self-hosted runner for executing CI jobs. |
| **Containerization** | ![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=white) | Used to package the application and database. |
| **CI/CD** | ![GitHub Actions](https://img.shields.io/badge/-GitHub_Actions-2088FF?logo=github-actions&logoColor=white) | Automates the build and test workflows. |

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

Follow these instructions to set up the project locally.

### Prerequisites
* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed on your machine.
* Git installed.

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository**
    ```bash
    git clone [https://github.com/Atharva-Ramawat/Flask-mysql-CI-pipeline](https://github.com/Atharva-Ramawat/Flask-mysql-CI-pipeline)
    cd Flask-mysql-CI-pipeline
    ```

2.  **Build the Docker Images**
    ```bash
    docker-compose build
    ```
    *(Or `docker build ...` if you are not using compose)*

3.  **Run the Application**
    ```bash
    docker-compose up -d
    ```

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Atharva Ramawat**
* [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/Atharva-Ramawat)

---

*This project is for educational purposes to demonstrate CI/CD, Flask, and Docker workflows.*
